 International Research Journal of Engineering and Technology (IRJET) e-ISSN: 2395-0056
 Volume: 09 Issue: 01 | Jan 2022 www.irjet.net p-ISSN: 2395-0072
© 2022, IRJET | Impact Factor value: 7.529 | ISO 9001:2008 Certified Journal | Page 639
AI Cum AR Based Smart Home Automation System
Dr.N.J.R.Muniraj1, R.Pramoth2, S.Abhishek3, J.Anoit Joshua Paul4, J.Hari Krishna5
1Dean, Dept. of Electronics and Communication Eng, SNS College of Technology, Coimbatore, Tamil Nadu- India.
4UG Student, Dept. of Electronics and Communication Eng, SNS College of Technology, Coimbatore, Tamil NaduIndia.
---------------------------------------------------------------------***----------------------------------------------------------------------
Abstract - According to the World Health Organization (WHO) Survey 27% of the virus (covid-19) spread between people
through direct and indirect physical contact, to overcome the situations people should reduce use of manual switches in public
places for controlling electrical appliances like light, fans, etc., In the current technology appliance are controlled by using IR
remote or mobile phones, while mobile phones work only by an authorized person because of a private network and in case of
IR remote it can be operated through only physical touches, to overcome the problem, the proposed technique includes of AI
cum AR based automation system for controlling all electrical equipment. The system equipped with microcontrollers and
relay along with the power supply unit, the outcome of the product is to reduce the transmission of virus between people
through physical touches and it additionally help the people with bodily disabilities.
Key Words: Home Automation; AI; AR; IoT
1. INTRODUCTION
Today technological changes make the probability of more complex things made into simple tasks with more accuracy in
major areas and mostly in Automation Industry. In this paper, we developed an Automation Using AR & AI with the help of
an IoT the proposed system consists of web camera, Processing unit, Relay, Microcontrollers, Mobile Phone and Target
image. This aims to reduce virus spread and to assist people, especially the physically challenged people and elderly who
cannot do their own work and need help from others for doing simple tasks such as controlling the electrical appliances in
the home. They are dependent on others which causes a lot of inconvenience too many people. With the rise of smart home
devices and easy use of mobile phones people can easily control the home appliances. But in many cases the GUI
(Graphical User Interface) of the mobile is difficult to use for the physically challenged people. This system uses
Augmented Reality (AR) & Artificial intelligence technique for automation which is getting increasingly popular for
controlling of home appliances.
Using this technology, it will greatly help the physically challenged and elderly people to control the appliances easily. A
mobile application along with Vuforia Server will help the users to control a switch by simply pointing their mobile camera
to it from a distance. Separate virtual switches will appear on and off when the camera is pointed to image target, thus
allow the user to control different appliances easily and conveniently. Instead of normal switches, 2D buttons will appear
on the screen which gives a familiar interface to the user. When the user touches the button information will be transfer to
the Blynk server and instruction is forwarded to the microcontroller and the controller turns the device on or off
according to the user operation.
Fig -1: Working Procedure
Electronic Components
AI cum AR based
microcontroller 
 International Research Journal of Engineering and Technology (IRJET) e-ISSN: 2395-0056
 Volume: 09 Issue: 01 | Jan 2022 www.irjet.net p-ISSN: 2395-0072
© 2022, IRJET | Impact Factor value: 7.529 | ISO 9001:2008 Certified Journal | Page 640
This system also contains AI based gesture capture, so the user can control the appliance by showing their fingers. There
are three ways to control the appliance first one by Blynk Application and the second one using ARIOT (AR based)
Application and third one is using AI based gesture control.
The section II of the paper is the literature survey. Section III is the hardware of the paper section IV of the paper is about
working and section V is software description. The section VI is about implementation of this paper and section VII is the
conclusion.
2. LITERATURE SURVEY
H. K. Singh, S. Verma, S. Pal and K. Pandey, [1] "A step towards Home Automation using IOT" They develop home
automation system based on IOT using Wi-Fi based microcontroller.
H. Durani, M. Sheth, M. Vaghasia and S. Kotech, [2] "Smart Automated Home Application using IoT with Blynk App" The
author proposed the functionality of node esp8266 are connected with home appliances with help of coding and hosting
online with web server. All the functionality is handled by Mobile App.
A. Sugiura, M. Toyoura and X. Mao, [3] "Clickable Virtual Button in Real Space" A new natural click interface for AR
systems. The acceleration of fingertips provides cues for detecting click gesture and succeeded in use it for recognizing
natural click gestures with a single camera.
S. Sureshkumar, C. P. Agash, S. Ramya, R. Kaviyaraj and S. Elanchezhiyan, [4] "Augmented Reality with Internet of Things"
AR can be integrated with industry (AR-IoT) 4.0 and how the sensors are used to monitoring objects/things contiguously
round the clock, and make the process of converting real-time physical objects into smart things for the upcoming new era
with AR-IoT.
C. Wu and C. H. Lin, [5] "Depth-based hand gesture recognition for home appliance control" hand gesture recognition
system for home appliance control using only the depth camera.
Minchev, Dimitar & Dimitrov, Atanas, [6] “Home automation system based on ESP8266” it shows implementation of an
Internet of Things Home Automation System with energy measurement capabilities, hardware components are the
ESP8266 micro-controller and energy meter chip HLW8012 by HLW Technology, Software works over the TCP/IP stack
and uses the MQTT protocol to communicate between the devices.
3. HARDWARE
The hardware components and materials that we used in the system are NodeMCU esp8266 Wi-Fi development board,
Arduino UNO, Relay Unit.
3.1 NodeMCU
NodeMCU is based on the Espressif ESP8266-12E Wi-Fi System-On-Chip, loaded with an open-source, Lua-based
firmware. The NodeMCU is the Wi-Fi enabled microcontroller where it is been widely used in the IoT areas it gets the input
from the sensor and it will upload to the internet.
3.2 Arduino UNO
The boards are equipped with sets of digital and analog input/output pins that may be interfaced to various
expansion board shields or breadboards for prototyping and other circuits. The boards feature serial communications
interfaces, including Universal Serial Bus USB on some models, which are also used for loading programs. The
microcontrollers can be programmed using the C and C++ programming languages, using a standard API which is also
known as the "Arduino language".
3.3 Relay Unit
The four-channel relay module contains four 5V relays and the associated switching and isolating components,
which makes interfacing with a microcontroller or sensor easy with minimum components and connections. 
 International Research Journal of Engineering and Technology (IRJET) e-ISSN: 2395-0056
 Volume: 09 Issue: 01 | Jan 2022 www.irjet.net p-ISSN: 2395-0072
© 2022, IRJET | Impact Factor value: 7.529 | ISO 9001:2008 Certified Journal | Page 641
Fig -2: Block diagram of control unit
4. WORKING
In this proposed system, we are controlling the appliances using AR & AI with a help of IOT. For the first step the system
must connect to an AC power supply of 230V to turn on the Controller board, the Router must have the same SSID and
password as we instructed in the code, once the board is turned on it automatically connect with the router. When the
connection is established, it will start sending appliance state requests of that particular device Id to the server, User
touches the virtual button the server responds to the request by fetching the switch state from the Vuforia database. As
soon as the data is fetched from the Vuforia database, the server sends the data back to ESP8266 in the JSON format. When
the data is received by the ESP8266, it parses the required information from the response and then triggers the relay
according to the data received. This system can also be controlled by using the hand gestures, when user shows hand
gesture in front of the camera the processing unit (Visual studio code) will start to recognize the figures and as per the
fingers instruction processing unit will command the Arduino to do the process. The Blynk service is also provided
additional to control the appliance. In case of any machine error Manual switches can also been used.
5. SOFTWARE
5.1 Unity Hub
Unity is a cross-platform game engine which support a variety of desktop, mobile, console and virtual reality
platforms. The engine may be used to create three-dimensional (3D) and two-dimensional (2D) AR visuals, as well as
interactive simulations and different reports.
5.2 Vuforia Engine
Vuforia is an augmented reality software development kit (SDK) for mobile gadgets that helps to create the
augmented reality applications. It uses computer technology to recognize and track 2D images and 3D objects in real time.
5.3 Visual Studio Code
Visual Studio Code is a source-code editor which consists of variety of programming languages, including Java,
JavaScript, Go, Node.js, Python and C++. This platform is used to create an Artificial Intelligent projects. 
 International Research Journal of Engineering and Technology (IRJET) e-ISSN: 2395-0056
 Volume: 09 Issue: 01 | Jan 2022 www.irjet.net p-ISSN: 2395-0072
© 2022, IRJET | Impact Factor value: 7.529 | ISO 9001:2008 Certified Journal | Page 642
6. IMPLEMENTATION
The outcome of this system is to build an AR virtual button interacts with the physical world which commands to switch
ON and OFF the appliances which is connected through IOT and to control the appliance using AI based gesture control.
This project can be operated in three ways one purely based on IOT where Blynk app used to control the appliances and
on second AR part is integrated to the IOT part of the appliances to switch ON and OFF and on third method we can control
the appliance using gesture movements. The AR part of the project is made possible by the UNITY Platform and Vuforia
developer portal where an app is created to recognize the image target using mobile phone camera shows the virtual
buttons. These virtual buttons are intractable in physical world, we need to place the finger on the virtual buttons which
commands the microcontroller to switch the appliances ON and OFF. Another part is IOT part where the Blynk app is used
to control the appliances directly. This flexibility of the project is distinct feature where the user can choose any three
ways to switch the appliances. The proposed system is lower in cost, compact and ease of use so the implementation will
be easy.
Fig -3: ON/OFF using Blynk App Fig -4: ON/OFF using AR
Fig -5: ON/OFF using AI 
 International Research Journal of Engineering and Technology (IRJET) e-ISSN: 2395-0056
 Volume: 09 Issue: 01 | Jan 2022 www.irjet.net p-ISSN: 2395-0072
© 2022, IRJET | Impact Factor value: 7.529 | ISO 9001:2008 Certified Journal | Page 643
7. CONCLUSION AND FUTURE POSIBILITY
As AR (Augmented Reality) and AI (Artificial intelligence) is one of the driving forces of technology in future and will be
applied every part of the technology that we use now, IOT is going to be the base of all technology because of the
seamlessly connectivity between the appliances. Bringing the best out of both the technology into one project is a
technological innovation. This project helps us to control the appliance in an easy way that it helps the physically
challenged and elderly person. Not only helps the elderly and physically challenged, it can replace the normal switches
helps to reduces the physical contact so that the spread of the disease can be reduced and decrease the chances of having a
pandemic which are easily spread through the physical touch. This project improves the quality of life. It improves the
efficiencies of IOT Technology due to interaction to the physical world through the virtual buttons. Switching is way faster
than the normal mechanism of switch we use daily.
A prototype was built and confirmed functional. This would help to assist people, especially the physically challenged
people and elderly who cannot do their own work and need help from others for doing simple tasks such as controlling the
electrical appliances in the home. The proposed idea is used to control particular home appliance by using any of the three
(AR, AI & IoT) technology. In future we will be using four channel relays, temperature sensors and advanced processors.
To control many appliances and to automatically switches the fans if the temperature raises. In future automation-based
products will be produced in large numbers to reduce labor efficiency, to help physically challenged people and to save
time.
8. REFERENCES
[1] H. K. Singh, S. Verma, S. Pal and K. Pandey, "A step towards Home Automation using IOT," 2019 Twelfth International
Conference on Contemporary Computing (IC3), 2019, pp. 1-5, doi: 10.1109/IC3.2019.8844945.
[2] H. Durani, M. Sheth, M. Vaghasia and S. Kotech, "Smart Automated Home Application using IoT with Blynk App," 2018
Second International Conference on Inventive Communication and Computational Technologies (ICICCT), 2018, pp. 393-
397, doi: 10.1109/ICICCT.2018.8473224.
[3] A.Sugiura, M.Toyoura and X. Mao, "Clikable Virtual Button in Real Space," 2013 International Conference on
Cyberworlds, 2013, pp. 384-384, doi: 10.1109/CW.2013.73.
[4] S. Sureshkumar, C. P. Agash, S. Ramya, R. Kaviyaraj and S. Elanchezhiyan, "Augmented Reality with Internet of Things,"
2021 International Conference on Artificial Intelligence and Smart Systems (ICAIS), 2021, pp. 1426-1430, doi:
10.1109/ICAIS50930.2021.9395941.
[5] C. Wu and C. H. Lin, "Depth-based hand gesture recognition for home appliance control," 2013 IEEE International
Symposium on Consumer Electronics (ISCE), 2013, pp. 279-280, doi: 10.1109/ISCE.2013.6570227.
[6] Minchev, Dimitar & Dimitrov, Atanas. (2018). “Home automation system based on ESP8266”. 1-4.
10.1109/SIELA.2018.8447172.