CHAPTER ONE
1.0	INTRODUCTION
1.1	TREES
Tree is a perennial plant with an elongated stem, or trunk, having supporting branches and leaves in most species. In some usages, the definition of a tree may be narrower, including only woody plants with secondary growth. Trees are not a taxonomic group but include a variety of plant species that have independently evolved a woody trunk and branches as a way to tower above other plants as competition for sunlight. Trees tend to be long-lived, some reaching several thousand years old. The tallest known tree, a coast redwood named “Hyperion” is up to 115.6 m (379 ft) in  height. Trees have been in existence for 370 million years. It is estimated that there are just over 3 trillion mature trees in the world (Crowther, Glick, Covey, Bettigole, Maynard, Thomas, Smith et al. 2015). A small group of trees growing together is called a “Grove” or “Copse”, and a landscape covered by a dense growth of trees is called a “Forest” (Fris and Henrik, 2005).
White (1990), gave the report that the life-span of trees is determined by its growth rings. These can be seen if the  tree is cut down or in cores taken from the edge to the centre of the tree. 
According to Greenfieldboyce (2015), Trees play a significant role in the reduction of erosion and helps in climate moderation. They remove carbon dioxide from the atmosphere and store large quantities of carbon in their tissues. Tree provide habitat for many species of animals and plants. Trees provide shade and shelter, timber for construction, fuel for cooking and heating, and fruit for food as well as having many other uses. In some part of the world, forests are shrinking as trees are cleared to increase the amount of land available for agriculture. Because of their longevity and usefulness, trees have always been revered and they play a role in many of the world's mythologies.
Trees deals with the production of  timber, which is a widely-used building material, its strength and lightness often gives it the advantage over concrete and steel. Modern buildings still require timber in roof construction. Timber is used in furniture manufacture, and for various other products ranging from tool handles and sporting equipment to matchsticks. Also, the bark of some trees provides cork and can also be made into simple cord - the main building material of half the world's people. However the main importance of bark is as a source of chemicals and medicines. Tannin, derived from wattle bark, is the basis of the leather tanning industry. Bark, and many other parts of the tree, are used in traditional and modern medicine. For example, Quinine and Aspirin, are made from bark extracts (Moll and Struik, 1989).
Trees play a very important role in our surroundings, they provide us with fresh air to breathe, shade in summers, food, and other benefits without which we cannot even think of living. As pollution and cutting of trees increases day by day, the ecological balance should be maintained. We should plant more and more trees in order to provide a healthy life to our children and the generations to come. Trees help us in providing food directly or indirectly. Trees provide shelter and serve as home for many animals and birds. Trees give us timber which is used in making of houses, tools, compartments of the train, big boxes, etc. (Action Biodiversity 2014).
Trees are nourished by their leaves. Every leaf is a complicated chemical powerhouse where carbondioxide from the air together with water from the roots is made into carbohydrates under light, a food processing called Photosynthesis. The carbohydrates or sugar rich sap manufactured in the leaves is then taken though special channels, known as phloem to all parts of the tree. As this takes place water and essential minerals from the soil flow upwards through channels known as xylem (Irish Forestry, 2016).
John (2012), Tree is any plant with the general form of an elongated stem, or trunk, which supports the photosynthetic leaves or branches at some distance above the ground. Tokuhisa (2014), Trees are also typically defined by height, with smaller plants from 0.5 to 10 m (1.6 to32.8 ft) being called shrubs which makes the minimum height of a tree to be loosely defined.
A tree typically has many secondary branches, supported clear of the ground by the trunk. This trunk typically contains woody tissue which gives it strength and presence of vascular tissue for the carriage materials from one part of the tree to another. For most trees, it is surrounded by a layer of bark which serves as a protective barrier. Below the ground, the roots branch that spread out widely helps to anchor the tree and extract moisture and nutrients from the soil. Above the ground, the branches divide into smaller branches and shoots. The shoots typically bear leaves, which capture light energy and convert it to sugars by photosynthesis , providing the food for the tree's growth and development. Flowers and fruit may also be present, but in some trees, such as conifers, they have pollen cones and seed cones while others have tree ferns producing spores instead (Greenfieldboyce, 2015). Trees exist in two different groups of vascular or higher plants, the gymnosperms and the angiosperms. The gymnosperm trees include conifers , cycads  and gnetales. They produce seeds which are not enclosed in fruits, but in open structures such as pinecones , and many have tough waxy leaves, such as pine needles (Friis, Balslev, Kongelige and Videnskabernes, 2005). The angiosperm trees are eudicots, the "true dicotyledons", named because the seeds contain two cotyledons or seed leaves (Biswas  and Johri, 1997). 
There are several types of trees or tree species in the world that make part of our ecosystem that acts as a habitat for over 140,000 animal species and other micro-organisms. Scientifically trees are very important to both humans and the environment. Therefore it is very important to conserve and plant more tree species to maintain their number and preserve the environment and the ecosystem. Trees are divided into two categories namely Deciduous and Coniferous trees. 
Deciduous  trees are sometimes referred to as broadleaf trees because of their leaves. They have larger and wider leaves as compared to those of coniferous trees. They spread out as they grow and they have rounded shapes as compared to conifers. Deciduous trees tend to drop their leaves during autumn. This is because the larger the size of the leaf the greater the surface area for photosynthesis. Most of these trees are hardwood trees. These trees are predominantly grown for their highly valued timber. Example of deciduous trees include: Red Maple, Yellowwood, Oakleaf mountain ash, Tulip tree, Sycamore (Typelist, 2014).  
Coniferous trees are also known as evergreen trees. This is because the leaves of these trees remain green throughout the year and they only drop their old leaves. They grow upwards and have a triangular shape. These trees have long pointed needle like and flat scaled leaves. Coniferous trees do not lose their leaves annually and they are evergreen. These trees are strong and resistant to different climatic conditions. Most of these trees are softwood trees. Example of coniferous trees include: Blue spruce, Araucaria (Typelist, 2014). 
The three main parts of trees include the root, stem, and leaves; they are integral parts of the vascular system which interconnects all the living cells (BioTech, 2012). The roots of a tree serve to anchor it to the ground and gather water and nutrients to transfer to all parts of the tree. They are also used for reproduction, defence, survival, energy storage and many other purposes (Russell and Cutler, 2003).
Leaves are structures specialized for photosynthesis and are arranged on the tree in such a way as to maximize their exposure to light without shading each other. They are an important investment by the tree and may be thorny or contain phytoliths, lignins, tannins or poisons to discourage herbivory. Trees have evolved leaves in a wide range of shapes and sizes, in response to environmental pressures including climate and predation. They can be broad or needle-like, simple or compound, lobed or entire, smooth or hairy, delicate or tough, deciduous or evergreen. The needles of coniferous trees are compact but are structurally similar to those of broad-leaved trees (Russell and Cutler, 2003). (Martin, 2012), seeds are the primary way that trees reproduce and their seeds vary greatly in size and shape. (Laurence, 1997) the great diversity that exists in tree fruits and seeds reflects the many different ways that tree species have evolved to disperse their offspring.

