How to write a killer Resume
A resume is a document which briefs the experience, education and skills of an individual. It can be used for many purposes but mostly it is used while finding the employment. It is the first impression of candidate towards the employer so it must be well writer that can catch the reader’s attention and build a strong image of you. If you ever feel that your resume needs to be upgraded, never waste a second for upgrading this. 
First decide which pattern of resume you are going to follow as there are three types (Chronological, functional and combination). And then following are the steps you must follow to make a killer resume:
Header: It must be noticeable that will make a bombastic impression towards the reader. It is the most valuable part of the whole document as it is the first part that the employer reads. 
E.g.
Name
Email address 
Contact number
Home address

Objectives: After the first section the section of objective should be next. It has to be change according to the organizations and the designation you are applying for. It must be started with a strong trait, few skills, and explanation of goals with the organization. Keep it short and valuable. No need to add the personal summary if you are writing the objective on resume. It will take up space and will seem discursive. 

Skills and Certifications: Write the substantial skills instead of writing your personal skills (such as, I am a team player, goal focused, good listener etc.). Adding such kind of intangible kills may lose the interest of reader. Substantial skills may include the skill of software or a developer etc. Make you resume different while avoiding these childish skills and this can help you to set apart from other people applying for the job by focusing on tangible hard skills.


Education: Avoid writing it on the top of the resume, it can make the resume less attractive if you are not much qualified and may lose the reader’s interest. This section must explain all education since Matric to your current qualification. Never write the GPA if you are graduated. Write the institute/school, passing year and degree acquired. Make it simple.

Experience:  The employer spends most of its attention on this section and this section will add up the bulk of your resume.  Make sure to write it in a well manner.
Writing all experiences from past may make your resume a legal binding document. So, never write all the jobs you have done in past unless it is relevant to the position you are applying for. It is usual mistake that mostly people do by adding the entire past job experience. Job title, name of company, and the time period is needed of each job in experience section.
With all the above mentioned steps it is must to follow the 9 Cs of communication (Clarity, Correctness, Completeness, Conciseness, Concreteness, Courtesy, Creativity, Commonsense, Complication free language), which makes the writing effective and attractive.

