Volume : 4 | Issue : 3 | March 2015 • ISSN No 2277 - 8179 Research Paper 


Investors Attitude Towards Mutual Funds  Investments



Management 
KEYWORDS : Mutual funds, Investors’  attitude, investors’ behavior, objectives,  financial instruments. 

Dr. Bharti Wadhwa Associate Professor, Symbiosis International University, Pune Dr. Anubha Vashisht Associate Professor, Symbiosis International University, Pune  Ms. Davinder Kaur Assistant Professor, Symbiosis International University, Pune 
ABSTRACT It is quite commendable that the mutual fund industry mark of almost 10 trillion INR of assets under manage ment as of May 2014 but participation from metro cities is low if we go by the number of investors and increase in  wallet share. This is because of the low customer awareness and financial literacy poses which act as the biggest challenge to channelize the  household savings into mutual funds.  
This study would describe the different factors that impact the purchase decision of investors’ towards Mutual Funds investments. To this  end, 300 respondents of Delhi NCR, having different demographic profiles were surveyed. Collected data has been analyzed by using various  statistical techniques.  
 This study would help fund managers in understanding the attitude of investors towards their investments into Mutual funds. With the help  of this fund managers would be able to come with different schemes of Mutual funds as per investors’ needs and preferences. Further analysis  of the study reveals that financial literacy of respondents is very important for making investment in Mutual funds.  

I.Introduction 
It is quite commendable that the mutual fund industry mark of  almost 10 trillion INR of assets under management as of May  2014. The industry has seen net flows of approximately 4900 bil lion INR from 2001 to 2014 (an average of 352 billion INR per an num). The change in the financial assets (gross financial savings)  of the household sector in FY2012-13 was approximately 109,69  billion INR, of which mutual funds attracted 274 billion INR (ap proximately 2.5%).  
Mutual fund penetration in India is low as compared to global  and peer benchmarks. The AuM to GDP ratio stands at 7 to 8%  as compared to a global average of 37%. Even the SAAAME econ omy of Brazil, considered a peer emerging economy, is signifi cantly ahead, with an AuM to GDP ratio of 45% (Source – AMFI,  ICI FactBook 2013).  
This is because of the low customer awareness and financial lit eracy poses which act as the biggest challenge to channelize the  household savings into mutual funds there is also a concern of  having investors stay invested in mutual funds and perceives the  long-term benefits of the product. Investors need to realize that  mutual funds are a way to meet their financial goals and not  just a means of short-term financial gain. Given the current sce 
nario of market volatility and uncertainty, the investor perceives  investments in the capital market to be risky and unsafe, and  hesitates to channelize his savings into mutual fund products.  Fund managers need to build confidence in the minds of inves 
tors and encourage them to stay invested in funds to derive the  desired benefits. 
It is well known that mutual funds offer their investors benefits  difficult to obtain through other investment vehicles. Benefits  such as diversification, access to equity and debt markets at low  transaction costs and liquidity are some such advantages.  
II. Review of Literature 
B.B.S.Parihar, Rajeev Sharma and Deepika Singh Parihar (2009)  conducted a study on analyzing investors’ attitude towards mu tual funds as an investment option and found that majority of  investors have still not formed any attitude towards mutual fund  investments. The main reason behind this has been observed to  be lack of awareness of investors about the concept and work 
ing of the mutual funds. They concluded that demographic vari ables are concerned; age, gender and income have been found  influencing the attitude of investors towards mutual funds sig 
nificantly. Whereas, amazingly, the other two demographic  variables (education and occupation), have not been found in fluencing the attitude of investors towards mutual funds. They  also analyzed that benefits delivered by the mutual funds are  concerned; return potential and liquidity have been perceived  to be the most attractive by the investors, followed by flexibility,  affordability and transparency.  
Barber et al., 2005 argue that the purchase decisions of mutual  fund investors are influenced by salient, attention-grabbing in formation. Investors are more sensitive to salient in-your-face  fees, like front-end loads and commissions, than operating ex penses; they are likely to buy funds that attract their attention  through exceptional performance, marketing, or advertising.  They found consistently negative relations between fund flows  and front-end load fees. A negative relation between fund flows  and commissions charged by brokerage firms was also docu mented. In contrast, no relation (or a perverse positive relation)  was found between operating expenses and fund flows. Addi tional analyses indicate that mutual fund marketing and adver tising, the costs of which are often embedded in a fund’s operat ing expenses, account for this surprising result. 
Peles, Nadav (1997) in his research on “Cognitive dissonance and  mutual fund investors”, suggests that purchase decisions for fi nancial assets should be made on the basis of investor beliefs  regarding the future return and risk of those assets other wise it  leads to cognitive dissonance .We find ample proof for the wide  prevalence of such a psychological state among Mutual Fund  (MF) investors in India. The growing middle class in many ma 
ture and emerging market economies is also expected to sup port the expansion of mutual fund sales in the future. From an  institutional perspective, the privatization of pension systems  and increasing market penetration of the insurance industry— especially in emerging markets—is also expected to increase the  demand for mutual fund products. 
Ippolito (1992) and Chander Subash and Mahajan, Mukesh  (1992) says that investors basically invest in MFs for tax ben efits, growth and for availing professional expertise. The research  highlights that major portion of investment is from professional  and salaried class. Madhusudhan V Jambodekar (1996) a study  reveals that investors look for safety of Principal, Liquidity and  Capital appreciation in the order of importance. Peles, Nadav  (1997) in his research work on “Cognitive dissonance and mutu 
al fund investors” provide evidence that investor psychology may 

IJSR - INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SCIENTIFIC RESEARCH 159  
Volume : 4 | Issue : 3 | March 2015 • ISSN No 2277 - 8179 Research Paper 

affect the fund-switching decision. 
III. Objectives 
The two major objectives of this study are:  
• To study and analyze the impact of various demographic  variables on investors’ attitude towards mutual funds; and • To study and rank the factors responsible for the selection  of mutual funds as an investment option.  
IV. Hypothesis 
Null Hypothesis (Ho) demographic factors (like age, gender, in come, education level and occupation etc.) of the respondents and  their attitude towards mutual funds are independent of each other. 
V. Data Collection 
The study is primarily based upon primary data collected from  questionnaire. The survey was administered on 300 respondents  of Delhi NCR. 
VI. Data Analysis 
The collected data was analyzed through simple statistical tools  like chi-square test. To measure the reliability of the data Cron bach Alpha test has been employed. After that Bartlett’s Test and  factor analysis has been used to reduce the width. 
VII. Findings 
Cronbach Alpha As commonly accepted rules of thumb the  minimum acceptable score of alpha is 0.70 (George and Mallery  2003). In the present study it is found to be 0.791which is suffi cient enough to precede the study. 
Kaiser-Meyer-Olkin and Bartlett’s Test The Kaiser-Meyer-Olkin  measure of sampling adequacy is an index for comparing the  magnitudes of the observed correlation coefficients to the mag nitudes of the partial correlation coefficients. Bartlett’s test is  applied to measure strength of relationship among variables of  population correlation matrix i.e. whether they are uncorrelated  or not. The minimum acceptable value of KMO is 0.50. Generally  the cut-off value of Bartlett’s test is less than or equal to 0.05. In  the present study KMO value is .658 and Bartlett’s value is 0.000  which permits the factor analysis to the data. 
Factors Responsible for Investment in Mutual Funds During the study, it was found that the investors generally in vested in mutual funds due to the reasons like, return potential,  transparency, liquidity, flexibility, and affordability. 

During the survey, the respondents were asked to rank these  factors and the data obtained is presented in Table 1. For ana lyzing the various factors responsible for investment in mutual  funds, ranking is done on the basis of weighted scores. Scale for  ranking is: 
Rank 1 - 5 Weights, Rank 2 - 4 Weights, Rank 3 - 3 Weights, Rank  4 - 2 Weights and  
Rank 5 - 1 Weights  
Table 1: Factors Responsible For Investment in Mutual  Funds  
Factors 
Rank






 
 1
 2
 3
 4
 5 
Weighted Score 
Percentage Rank


Return Potential 


200 70 12 


18 0 


1358 
29.81994 
1
Transparency 
11 
51 42 


94 


102 664 
14.58059 
5
Liquidity 
40 
80 78 


60 42 


948 
20.81686 
2
Flexibility 
27 


75 101 50 47 




888 
19.49934 
3
Affordability 
30 
18 78 


60 


114 696 
15.28327 
4
 
  
  
  
   


4554 
100





As far as the factors responsible for investment in mutual funds  are concerned, ‘return potential’ has got first rank, ‘liquidity’ has  got second rank, and ‘flexibility’, ‘affordability’ and ‘transparency’  have been ranked third, fourth and fifth, respectively. 
Factors 
Factor Loading
Return Potential 
.852
Transparency 
.659
Liquidity 
.813
Flexibility 
.759
Affordability 
.693



As per Factor analysis reduces the number of variables to such  a small number which could be capable of explaining the ob served variance in the large number of variables.  
The feature of returns carries maximum communalities. 
After that Chi square test has been applied to test the hypothesis  i.e. demographic factors (like age, gender, income, education level  and occupation etc.) of the respondents and their attitudes to wards mutual funds are independent of each other. 
Result of test is as follows: 
This study reveals that out of 300 respondents surveyed, 85 (i.e.,  28.3%) respondents have a positive attitude towards mutual  funds, 143 (i.e., 47.7%) have a neutral attitude and 72 (i.e., 24%)  have a negative attitude towards it.  
Age and Attitude towards Mutual Funds Investments: chi square calculated (41.2) > chi-square tabulated at 4 d.f. (9.48),  the null hypothesis is rejected and it is concluded that there is  a significant association between the age of respondents and  their attitude towards mutual funds investments it means age of  the investor influences its decision towards mutual funds.Moreo 
ver, 31% (i.e., 43 out of 138) of respondents of ‘25 and Below ‘ age  group, 31% (i.e., 53 out of 107) of ‘26-45’ age group and 16% (i.e.,  09 out of 55) of ‘Above 45’ age group have a positive attitude to wards mutual funds.  
Gender and Attitude towards Mutual Fund Investments:  Here chi-square calculated (19.86) > chi-square tabulated (5.99),  the null hypothesis is again rejected and it is concluded that  there is a significant association between the gender of respond 
ents and their attitude towards mutual funds investments. i.e., the  respondents’ gender influences their attitude towards mutual  funds significantly. Moreover, 35% (i.e., 72 out 208) male respond ents and 15% (i.e., 13 out of 92) female respondents have a posi tive attitude towards mutual funds.  
Income and Attitude towards Mutual Funds Invest ments: Here also chi-square calculated (49.00) > chi-square  tabulated (9.47), the null hypothesis is rejected and it is  concluded that there is a significant association between  the income of respondents and their attitude towards mu tual funds. The respondents’ income influences their atti tude towards mutual funds significantly. Moreover, 12% (i.e., 

160 IJSR - INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SCIENTIFIC RESEARCH 
Volume : 4 | Issue : 3 | March 2015 • ISSN No 2277 - 8179 Research Paper 
08 out of 68) respondents of ‘Below 10,000’ income group,  
25% (i.e., 43 out of 175) respondents of ‘10,000-25,000’ in 
come group and 60% (i.e., 34 out of 57) respondents of  
‘Above 25,000’ income group have a positive attitude to 
wards mutual funds.  
Education and Attitude towards Mutual Funds Investments: 
Since chi-square calculated (3.9) < chi-square tabulated (9.49), the  
null hypothesis is accepted and it is concluded that there is no 
significant association between the education of respondents  
and their attitude towards mutual funds. The respondents’ educa 
tion does not influence their attitude towards mutual funds sig 
nificantly. 
Occupation and Attitude towards Mutual Funds Investments: 
Since chi-square calculated (18.95) > chi-square tabulated (12.59),  
the null hypothesis is rejected and it is concluded that there is 
a significant association between the occupation of respondents  
and their attitude towards mutual funds. i.e., the respondents’ oc 
cupation influences their attitude towards mutual funds signifi 
cantly. 
VIII.Conclusion 
There has been growing importance of Mutual Fund Investment  
in India. When compared with other financial instruments, in 
vestments in Mutual funds are safer and also yields more returns  
on the portfolio investment. Study also reveals that the feature of  
return from the investments and rating by credit agency is the  
upmost concern of the investors Analysis of the study reveals that  
financial literacy of respondents is very important for making  
investment in Mutual funds. Therefore Mutual fund companies  
should promote financial awareness amongst the respondents  
so as to channelize their income and savings towards Mutual  
Funds. For achieving heights in the financial sector, the mutual  
fund companies should formulate the strategies in such a way  
that helps in fulfilling the investors’ expectations. Today the  
main task before mutual fund industry is to convert the poten 
tial investors into the reality investors. New and more innovative  
schemes should be launched from time to time so that investor’s  
confidence should be maintained. All this will lead to the overall  
growth and development of the mutual fund industry.
REFERENCE • Aggarwal, N and Gupta, M (2007) “Performance of Mutual Funds in India: An Empirical Study”, The Icfai Journal of Applied Finance, Vol.13, No.9,  pp.5-16. | • Avadhani V.A,” Security Analysis and Portfolio Management”, 1997 edition, Himalaya publishing house. | • Bansal, L.K (1996), “Mutual  Funds Management and Working” Deep and Deep publications, New Delhi, pp 34-39.ZENITH International Journal of Multidisciplinary | • B.B.S.Parihar, Rajeev Sharma and Deepika  Singh Parihar "Analyzing Investors' Attitude Towards Mutual Funds as an Investment Option", The Icfaian Journal of Management | • Chander Subash and Mahajan, Mukesh, 1992,  “Perception of Investors towards Mutual funds: An Empirical Investigation”, Indian Journal Commerce, June, pp 117-119 | • Donald e. fisher, Ronald j. Jordan-”Security Analysis and  Portfolio Management” sixth edition. PHI Publisher. | • Gupta S.P “Statistical Methods”, 28th edition, Sultan Chand & sons publisher. Madhusudhan V Jambodekar, “Awareness Of  Mutual Funds”-Portfolio Management”,vol 1, Feb. 1996. | • Saini, S., Anjum, B., and Saini, R. (2011). “Investors’ Awareness And Perception About Mutual Funds”,International Journal  Of Multidisciplinary Research, Vol. 1 No. 1, pp. 14-29, accessed on 30, June | • Sujit Sikidar and Amrit pal Singh, “Investors Behavior in Equity and Mutual Funds Investment”- Journal  of Applied Finance, Mar- 1996. | • Yogeshwari phatak and others, “A Study of Performance Evaluation of Private and Public Sponsored Mutual Funds”-NMIMS Journal, Jan-July 2007,  pp. 23-29. |  
IJSR - INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SCIENTIFIC RESEARCH 161  
